"Honeybee conductor is that, we all know, honeybee goes everywhere where you can get honeys or
nurses.
They go joyfully, really making joyful effort and continuously and going to get the honeys, that.
And what that example is said, and that means looking, contracting with qualified teachers.
Qualified teacher is like, also a honeybee, they don't go to where they don't have the honeys.
Or they don't offer the honeys exactly for the sweetness. Go exactly where the honeys.
And time is precious. Situation is precious. Everything is precious. Our life is precious.
And therefore, man is meaningful precious. So, we can qualify the teacher.
Qualified teacher is in the teaching always said, "spiritual friend".
And spiritual friend is, gathered there is two friends, according to Dharmati.
"Spiritual friend" and "positive friend". Positive friend is "soup friend".
Or another word, maybe "spiritive friend" can use "dharma friend".
Qualified teacher is, you will find, that is a perfect spiritual dharma friend.
And then "positive friend" is our regular friend.
Therefore, that's also, even though they may be not practicing that, but yet, their attitude,
activity, conduct, all are quite good, really.
This is the kind of women, nice behaviors, good qualities. So, those are known as qualified.
Then, qualified teacher, of course, you can read in words of my perfect teaching and other
teachings.
There are so many class legends, but however, in the teaching said, qualified teacher, according to
the Vedic Buddhism.
Because the Vedic Buddhism has all the teachings, all the teachings of the Buddhas.
And basically, Buddhism, Buddha's teaching, Mayan, Sukhar Mayan's teaching, Vedic and Mayan's
teaching, all that in the Vedic Buddhism.
So, they also practiced that, according to those qualified teachers practiced that.
So, then in the qualified teacher, what I said, in the qualified teacher, if you look back, in the
Vinaya level, also find good qualifications.
All the Vinaya teaching, all the basic Buddhist school teaching, it has quite also good
qualifications, all the good qualities that the Mayan also found there.
And in the Mahayana practice, again, the Mahayana of the Kriya Masters has many, but basically,
most simplified is compassion for both teachers.
Really, have the body, have strong in heart and mind, mind and practice.
And the Mahayana qualified teacher, again, there are many distractions and all that, but as you
simplify that, one who practices meditating, meditating, what they taught, also they are practicing
that.
Not just the only speaker, but also they are practicing that.
And maintaining samayas and receiving them have the linear teachings, and also they have some
courage and commitment to share those teachings with Behan, to the others, and also every support,
very supportive to every occasion, when you need something like that, but even they can help.
Those are known as, more the time, known as quite qualified teachers.
In the teachings, the absolute, perfect, qualified teacher is difficult to find in the daily
interaction times, that always.
But even we have those, something with that 80%, 70%, then we can consider those are quite good,
qualified teachers.
To find a qualified teacher, and then the teaching said, you should also, I mean, some teaching
said, listen what you heard from others about that teaching, that where you like to contact.
And what you see, the current look of that individual, every old style. And somehow you didn't hear
, you didn't see anything, even some suggested, do the most, do the nations.
Do the nations. Because qualified teaching, according to the Buddha teaching, this is not just the
only token, it's so important.
This is like really well assured us to the part. This is not just a short time, but this is a long-
term goal of our time.
If we get in light with this lifetime, then maybe we can say short time. But suppose if we didn't
get in light with this lifetime, we are planning, we are laying the foundation for a long time to
discover our old generation.
And this is the first of our steps, or at least in this lifetime we make these steps. So therefore,
qualified teacher is so, so important.
And so, kind of examine carefully, and go call with me. Once you find the qualified teacher, what
he said, then be expert.
And what any teacher says, the words of my part of the teacher, what he said, be expert to examine
the teacher, be expert to contract with the teacher, be expert to learn from the qualified teachers
.
Post, second, and third, always be expert to find the qualified teacher, be smart, be expert. And
once you form, to learn, learn that, or to be expert with contract, communication, make
relationship in a small world, be expert.
I mean, he launched the role of the great master of Malaria, once he formed, and of course Malaria
is the highest couple of individuals.
How is courage and commitment persisted? The zillow, what's called the zillow? Resilience? Yeah,
the zillows.
And just really, so correct, and read Umchimpa's words. Umchimpa is also, I mean, he is teaching,
even your highest, highly qualified, or highly educated individuals, without the teacher, you're
not going to get enlightenment.
Even you know all the Buddha teachings, teaching and memorizing all those teachings, won't get
enlightenment without the other five teachers, when you're not conquered.
That we can see in Tibet, that Umchimpa is highly educated. All the knowledge that exists in the
Buddhism, or the great Buddha, there are always ten knowledges, or ten signs of the mind, or ten
knowledges, well, not signs of the mind.
Umchimpa is an expert, but to read the enlightenment, to be discovered, he is old in the nature of
the truth.
He went to a contract with the Zinkummarada, with the Dharakummaradas. When he went there, he didn
't go with arrogance, or "I'm learned, I'm scholars."
And what they know is that, so humble, so humane, and so we're devoted to the development. In India
, and for example, great master for Naravas.
According to his story, Naravas is so educated, one of the highest, top great bandedas for the
scholars in that context.
But to discover the absolute true nature, he contract, searched in a contract that, diligently with
his master, the Lord.
And what they, what, if you did that, what they forgot, all become enlightened.
Okay, the Lord, Narava, become great master of Naravas.
Umchimpa become great Buddha, or the old, many times, the second garab dol, or the garab dol you
would debate.
Umchimpa become.
This is what, they say, is so correct, commitment, persistently, and continually, then, learning,
observing, and nourishing ourself.
Naravas. And when you're learning what is in the Buddha teaching that you all know, studying,
contemplating, and then, that is what prepare you the meditation.
Studying, contemplating, teaching, not just, "Oh, that's enough, that's enough."
Enough. Teaching is enough, enough. Teaching is always good, you see. But enough is the emotional
activities, enough.
That is really enough, if you can make that enough, still. All these emotions, endless ego-cling
activities, self-emotional activities.
And we can stop that, and we can say that, and we have the courage to say, "Well, that's enough,
that's enough."
You're making, or we're making some cornerstone statement of the practitioners.
Teaching is always said. And what did the teaching say?
The great math, masters of practitioners in Bodhisattva did learn so many things. Never say, "
Enough" as the ocean.
Ocean is in all the waters of the world, but never say, "It's enough."
That's to use the examples. That is. And then, contemplating, not just the receiving, receiving,
but putting our own intelligence,
our own shop intellectual, say, just making some sense, as teaching said, and our knowledge make
that more meaningful, tangible, so that we can practice.
So that we can practice it. When we meditate, we practice it, we don't have any doubt, hesitation,
this and that, then we're settled.
So that is what's known as searching, honey bee-like conduct.
Now, when you have the opportunity to qualify a teacher and then receive the teaching, contemplate
on that, now we're going to meditate.
Meditating is then used, for example, as swallowing. A bird swallows, swallows, swallows, then
enters that.
Then we don't have the horrid sense. According to the teaching, that bird swallows, that really
enters that bird in the nest.
Don't make any hesitations. Just immediately goes in. That's it.
And comfortable stay in the cozy nestle, cozy nestle. That's it. Relax now. Why are you worried?
And you say, relax. That is the result of the meditating. Now meditating, relax.
Calm and beautiful, reveal all the tools that you learned, receive the teaching and you learn and
you got.
Now apply that. You apply your studying to meditate, meaningful.
You apply that, your contraption to meditate, meaningful.
Become a result. That is meditation. That is practice.
That is swallow, like conductors, conductors.